NMS-15276: Expand flow thesholding documentation (#6615)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/flows/thresholding.adoc

= Thresholding Flow Applications
:description: Learn how to create thresholds on flows data in OpenNMS Horizon/Meridian to generate alarms when the traffic amount violates these thresholds.

The <<deep-dive/flows/classification-engine.adoc#ga-flow-support-classification-engine, Classification Engine>> categorizes flows in applications.
OpenNMS supports summing up the bytesIn/bytesOut data of flow records based on these flow applications.
Users can define thresholds on this data to generate alarms when the amount of traffic violates these thresholds.

[[configure-flow-thresholding]]
== Configure thresholding for flow applications

To enable thresholding for flows you need to enable the `applicationThresholding` flag in the adapter's definition in `telemetry-configuration.xml`.

> Note that you do not need to enable or configure telemetryd on the core to support flows thresholding.

Reviewer: This says you don't need to configure telemtryd on the core when using sentinels, but later on in the document it says sentinels receive threshold configs from the core.  This seems contradictory.
```suggestion
You do not need to enable or configure telemetryd on the core to support flows thresholding, if you are using Sentinels for processing telemetryd data.
```

Author: @fooker , which is true? Or what should we say here?

Reviewer 2: For the wording, I'm with @mmahacek here. If you do not use sentine for this, you need to enable it of course.

Sentinel syncs the thresholds from core. But this is not done by telemetryd but the thresholding engine.

| Default

| flowThreshold.stepSizeMs
| Interval for checking thresholds and doing data collection, in milliseconds.
| 300000

| flowThreshold.idleTimeoutMs
| Timeout for cleaning up idle sessions.
| 900000

|===

== Application threshold behavior

This section describes how flows thresholds work in specific scenarios.

=== Undefined application

If a flow threshold does not specify an application, you will see the following behavior:

* If the `filterOperator` is set to OR, there must be at least one filter or the threshold configuration will not match.

* If the `filterOperator` is set to AND, an empty list of filters will result in a match.

=== Apply flow threshold to all applications

You may want to create a flow threshold that applies to all applications; for example, "if any application consumes more than X bandwidth ...".

To apply a flow threshold to all applications, use a `match-all` regex expression like `.*` inside the filter.

> //not sure what was meant in the Jira by "But then you could just threshold on the interface statistics."

Reviewer 2: I've read part of the question as "how can we threshold over the sum of all applications". Which is the whole interface utilization and other sums are not possible for now.

=== Flows thresholds per application

Note that you cannot apply flows thresholds to the total bandwidth for a location.
You can apply them only to a single resource; in this case, the interface of the exporting device.

== Flow thresholds with Sentinel

{page-component-title} synchronizes thresholds from the core to Sentinels using the key-value store.
The default implementation uses the default PostgreSQL database.

> You do not need to configure thresholds on Sentinel as long as you xref:deep-dive/flows/thresholding.adoc#configure-flow-thresholding [configure flows thresholding] in the core.

Reviewer 2: "beside the configuration `applicationThresholding` needed in the `telementryd-configuration.xml` adapter".

You may want to create a flow threshold that applies to all applications; for example, "if any application consumes more than X bandwidth ...".

To apply a flow threshold to all applications, use a `match-all` regex expression like `.*` inside the filter.

//not sure what was meant in the Jira by "But then you could just threshold on the interface statistics."

=== Flows thresholds per application

Note that you cannot apply flows thresholds to the total bandwidth for a location.
You can apply them only to a single resource; in this case, the interface of the exporting device.

== Flow thresholds with Sentinel

{page-component-title} synchronizes thresholds from the core to Sentinels using the key-value store.
The default implementation uses the default PostgreSQL database.

You do not need to configure thresholds on Sentinel as long as you xref:deep-dive/flows/thresholding.adoc#configure-flow-thresholding [configure flows thresholding] in the core.

Threshold configuration and state are synced dynamically to all places where needed.
A triggered threshold results in an event, which Sentinel sends back to the core for further processing and transformation into alarms, and so on.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
